You get to write your own product spec
using all the things I've taught you up to
this point.
I would say the best thing you could do
here is write something that pertains to
your work, right?
If you have something already
that you are thinking about,
like I wanna do this, do it.
Do that.
So whether that can be a personal project,
maybe you can be proposing that
I wanna build a, I don't know, fantasy
football tracker or something like that.
I don't know, making stuff up here or
snowboard route tracker or
something of that nature.
Or if you're doing something at work
that like you're about to embark on this
project and you wanna work on it,
write a product spec for it.
This is best because then you get
to utilize your domain knowledge,
which I think is usually helpful because
that's what you're gonna be doing with
your product specs in the future.
If you're really blanking on ideas,
I wrote down a few of them here,
feel free to take these,
modify them or write another one.
So as an ESPN fantasy sports app user,
I wanna be able to click on a player's
name and instantly see them playing live.
As a user of Zoom, I wanna integrate
my Spotify so I can play music for
everyone on the video call.
And as an open source
project maintainer of Github,
I want to be able to assign
dollar amount bounties to issues,
then pay someone who actually fulfills
those issues directly inside of Github.
Feel free to get creative.
You don't have to do
any one of these here.
This was just mostly here for
you to get started.
So what did you learn?
Did anyone have any interesting
insights typing into the product specs?
Or is this just an exercise in futility
and we're just one step closer to death.
>> Every time I approach a product spec,
I'm surprised at how little of my idea
gets on the page in the first draft.
And maybe it is almost a great way for
me, personally, to screw up finishing it.
Because I'm always surprised
at how the essentials
don't seem to get
communicated the first time.
>> I think a way that I
help with that is here.
Writing these two first helps
me quite a bit, the goals and
the non goals and
the problem statement, and
writing explicitly what I
expect my user stories to be.
Cuz that, at least for me, if I'm
capturing problems my users have and
I'm capturing ways to alleviate
problems that my users are facing,
if I get nothing else out of this
I was like, here's a problem,
here's how we're choosing
to solve their problem.
Usually I tend to capture the part that I,
that the essence of
what I'm looking to do.
And everything else is just mechanical of
how do we go about solving the problem.
Normally I don't really care how
we go about solving the problem,
I just care that we solve the problem.
I'm not a particular person
that's married to my ideas,
like I've said multiple times during
the course of this course, I'm an idiot.
I know that and
I fully well lean into it, right?
And so if I'm wrong and I know it,
it means I've learned something and
I'm super into that idea.
>> I think there's some option for
like tenability.
Cuz I think a lot of the ideas that
you're generating probably could be new,
I don't know.
Do you, do you ever think about that or
when you.
>> Can you rephrase that?
Like a potentiality,
like if you're coming up with a new idea,
do you talk to legal about like-
>> This is something that's completely-
>> I got you.
>> We're doing here and could potentially
make even more money somehow from?
>> Yeah, Microsoft was really big on that.
They give you an award if
you get something patented.
Actually I think snowflake does it too.
They have pushed that less on me.
But now I talk to legal all the time.
So I would imagine that by involving legal
really early in your product process,
I do it just for liability and
stuff like that.
And generally, the stuff that I'm doing,
I like to push what the terms of service
allows us to do, and
they kind of like rein me in.
It's kind of a process, but
I would hope by those people seeing those
things at those time that they'd be like,
hey, is there you might have
something cool and new here.
Maybe we should talk about that.
That's gonna vary a lot by company.
I know IBM loves that stuff, right?
They just eat that stuff up.
And they, I think IBM year over year
gets the most patents issued to them.
Something like that, which is wild to me.
So, yeah, not something I've
thought about, but particularly for
companies that that's a big emphasis.
So I think it's a great idea.
>> Do you capture like resource
costs in your product spec?
Like, is it gonna be like 20 developers
for a year or 100 developers for
five years or three months or whatever?
>> Yeah.
>> Is that one of those technical-
>> I would probably capture that
in timeline, you could probably
read timelines and resourcing
here because those are generally
correlated to each other fairly closely.
It's a good call cuz for
the most part I don't capture that but
that's because I only have so
many resources myself, right?
And people know that I'm only managing
two engineering teams right now.
And so I'm not really getting too many
questions about who's resourcing what.
It's kind of my engineering managers call,
but I would capture this in like person
hours or person months or
whatever you would want.
This would be a good place to do it.
And if that was a pertinent question,
which frequently it isn't for me, but
if it was a pertinent question to you,
then yes, I would answer that.
That stripe was a bigger question for me
because I manage so many teams, but yeah.